Should you find any bug, send an email. See AUTHORS for details. 

Also, the coding style is far from ideal - be warned.



KNOWN ISSUES (and solutions):

1. With many AVI files, seek is not precise (5 seconds or more). This is due to 
the reduced number of key frames. Re-encode your with with one key frame at 
least each 12-15 frames.

2. MPlayer: When you double-click and move to the last subtitle before current 
and then start the playback, the subtitle is not shown by mplayer. This seems 
to be an mplayer issue; the subtitles are actually reloaded. If you double-
click 3-4 subtitles before current, you'll see them displayed properly.

3. GStreamer: the SDL video output and the "Auto" video output for GStreamer 
will not integrate with the main program window and open the video in a separate
one (like MPLayer). The first is a limitation of SDL, the second is a due to 
GStreamer's internal design. Use different output if possible.

4. VLC: it will not show the timer in the upper left corner (as MPlayer and 
GStreamer do). This is interbal limitation of VLC.

5. VLC: it may not work properly if your video card only supports x11 output 
(i.e. lacks at least xv). VLC auto-detects the video output, so there is 
nothing to be done. If you can only do x11, switch to other backend. 

6. VLC: it will try to automatically load subtitles from the same directory
where you load video from. This seems a to be a 'feature', but to avoid it,
put your video source file in a separate directory with nothing else inside.

7. GTK3: it has a bug which prevents the application to change the main 
window's background colour when the GTK theme uses umages for background. This 
means that vbss might not be able to set the baclground colour to black (which 
is required to block the excessivle light when superimposing subtitles by 
projection). A work-around is implemented in the code. Other possible solutions: 
- swich to a GTK theme which does not use images for window backgrounds
- swich to a GTK theme which has black window backgrounds
- use GTK-2. 

8. Windows: the Theora codec is missing.  This is an upstream bundling bug - the
codec is missing in the MinGW gstreamer-ffmpeg package. The package was built
in 2011 for CentOS 6 and probably won'be rebuilt until CentOS 7 comes out. See
www.lfarkas.org/packages/linux for details. Either re-encode your video with
other video codec or wait until a next release eventually fixes this.

9. Windows: the help files' TOC is displayed incorrectly for non-Latin 
charsets. This is a Windows Help viewer (hh.exe) limitation which only supports 
ANSI characters. No workaround possible, complain to Miscrosoft.  

