Voody Blue Subtitler (aka VBS) is a suit of programmes that allow you to:
- manually synchronize a text file with a video stream, thus creating a 
  subtitles file;
- play back a subtitle file
- relay the subtitles through a small server to multiple clients

VBS consists of several pieces: 
- vbsm - the "master" client which can do the timing of subtitles, with or 
  without video playback
- vbss - the "slave" client, which can play back a subtitle file or can receive 
  subtitles from a server and show them in real time
- vbsd - the server which relay the subtitles.
- vbsc - a configuration utility (mainly useful for vbss, but works for vbsm 
  too).

VBS uses a small plain-text config, stored in ~/.vbs/config. It is generated 
when VBS is run for the the first time. Do not edit this file unless you are 
told to do so. Both vbsm and vbss share this file; vbsd keeps its own config 
file (of the same format) in $SYSCONFDIR/vbs/config. 

You can force the usage of a different config file through the -f (or --config)
command-line option. 

A. vbsm
-------

The input file should be ether text-only or SubRip format. VBS can utilize 
either single-byte encoding or UTF-8. The best way to produce a suitable file 
is to save it from your favourite word processor setting the appropriate 
encoding. By default, VBS treats the input file as UTF-8 encoded. To change it,
use the "Subtitle/Set Encoding" menu. The lines of the input file may be either
<CR> ot <CR><LF> terminated, VBS will handle both. 

If you wish to have a subtitle split into two lines at an exact position (not 
where your player decides), insert a pipe character "|" at the desired position.
When exporting the subtitles, VBS will replace it with a newline character. 

The output file is in SubRip format. It was chosen because it is frame-rate  
independent (yes, I agree that these stupid numbers preceding each subtitle are
just a waste of time) and matches best the way the subtitles list is managed by
the VBS internally. The default export encoding is UTF-8. To change it, use the
"Edit/Set Encoding" menu.

By default, the lines in the output file will be <LF> terminated. If you need a
<CR><LF> format, set it from the "Edit/Set Newline Char" menu. 

vbsm can use two different players for video, hence the interface will slighty 
differ. When MPlayer is used, it will always be in a separate window. When 
GStreamer is used, it will always be in the main window. GStreamer has the 
advantage that it can display the subtitle which is currently "on", therefore,
it is the preferred method if both players are available (if only one is, 
naturally, it will be used). If you have both, but prefer the MPlayer style, 
you can set so in the Video preferences. Also, to change the video output used
by GStreamer (by default, the highly inefficinent, but safe X11) use the 
corresponding menu. Changing backend or output requires restart to take effect.
Do note that the SDL video output will, depending on the exact build, sometimes
put the video in a separate window (in MPlayer style).

vbsm has a simple interface: 

1. A status bar showing whether the movie is running or paused. When you first 
   start it, it pauses at the beginning of the movie. Press spacebar to start 
   playing. You can pause the playback at any time by againg pressing spacebar; 
   however, you can only pause the playback between subtitles and not when one 
   is inserted and not yet retrieved. 

2. A progress bar showing a recommended duration for each subtitle. If the 
   subtitle is not retrieved after the suggested time, a counter of the total 
   duration of the subtitle is also displayed. 

3. A list of lines, read from the input file together with their entry and exit 
   times (initially all zeroes). The subtitle which is ready to be entered is 
   highlighted. To insert the subtitle, press "b". To retrieve it and prepare 
   the next, press "m". To retrieve it and insert the next, press "n".  
      
   When playback is paused, you can use double click any of the first two 
   columns of a processed subtitle (i.e. columns which have values, greater than
   zero) to move 1 second  before its entry time. While playing, you'll see the 
   subtitles displayed by the player and will also see the the current subtitle 
   being highlighted. 

   To edit the text of a subtitle on the spot, double click the column containg 
   the text. With MPEG files this works pretty OK (they usually have a keyframe 
   every 1/2 second or so). However, with AVI files seek precision often lies 
   somewhere around 5 seconds meaning with AVI files you may have to go back 1-2 
   subtitles earlier - or re-encode it in a more suitable fashion.

   Whenever you press the "m" or "n" key, VBS automatically exports the 
   subtitles list. Therefore you don't have to save anything on exit. You can 
   still force exporting by pressing the "s" key. Each export overwrites the 
   previous one. 

4. Menu bar. 

   The File/Quit exits the programme.

   To insert a new empty subtitle before/after current or to delete current 
   subtitle, use the entries in the Edit menu. In the same menu you can zero 
   the counters for the currently selected subtitle or for all subtitles from 
   current on. If you are using vbsm without video backend, you can also set 
   the time to zero from this menu.

   To import a plain text or SubRip text file, use the entries in the Subtiles 
   menu. Also use it t specify encoding for the text files and export path 
   (default is "/tmp/vbs_export.srt"). Also use it to specify encoding for the 
   exported file and to set the newline character (default <LF>).

   To load a video file, use the Video/Load menu.

   To send the subtitles to a vbsd server, set the server name and port in the 
   "Network" menu; also, there is the entry to enable or disable network. 

   To get some usage help, use the Help/Contents menu.

B. vbss
-------

vbss is a small program which displays subtitles. It is most useful when run in 
fullscreen with PC/laptop video output using projector to overlay subtitles over
another motion picture. 

vbss has no GUI - it opens in fullscreen, showing white subtitles on a black 
background. For testing pusposes, an option on the config file called 
FULL_SCREEN exists; if set to 0, vbss will start in windowed mode and will use 
smaller font size. 

The font size can be changed specified in the config file, as well as the 
background and foreground colours (not very useful in practice).

vbss can operate in three modes depending on a config setting. 

- If NETWORK_MODE is 0, vbss will try to load the file specified in 
IMPORT_FILENAME (it should be in SubRip format) and play it back. 

- If NETWORK_MODE is 1, vbss will try to load the file specified in 
IMPORT_FILENAME (it should be in SubRip format), play it back and send the 
subtitles to the specified server and port.

- If NETWORK_MODE is 2, vbss will try to contact a vbsd server set in 
SERVER_NAME at the specified TCP_PORT. It will poll the server each second, 
displaying whatever the server is streaming wight now. 

When playing back a local file, the playbak will not start until you press once 
the space bar (a prompt will be shown on screen). Once the playback begins, the
follwing hot keys are available:
- space: toggle pause/playback
- q: rewind one minute
- w: rewind five seconds
- e: rewind one second
- r: jump one second forward
- t: jump five seconds forward
- y: jump one minute forward

C. vbsd
-------

vbsd is a text relay daemon. It will bind to the port, specified in TCP_PORT in 
its config and will then listen for queries, which can be:

- a "push" request - from vbsm - then vbsd will store the subtitle it has 
received. vbsd only stores one subtitle a time. When a subtitle goes off screen,
vbsm sends a newline to clear the vbsd storage. vbsm will prepend a magic key 
to the subtitle, which vbsd will try to match againts the MAGIC_KEY from its 
config file. The subtitle will be stored only upon match.

- a "pull" request - from vbss - then vbsd will send the current subtitle it 
stores. Any request which does nto begin with correct magic key will be treated 
as "pull" request. 

vbsd can be started by SystemV init or by systemd. Start-up scripts are 
provided for both.

D. vbsc
-------

vbsc is a configuration utility. It only has a menu with all the combined 
settings from vbsm and vbss. You can use it to change the settings in the config
file (mostly useful for vbss as it does not have a menu).



IMPORTANT! This free softwarte is released with hope that it will be useful, but 
with no warranty of any type at all. Use it at your own risk. You are free to 
distribute it as well as to modify it as long as you preserve the original 
License. See LICENSE file for details.

